examples/tomcat/README.md, before:

# Installation on Tomcat
This document describes the installation of the **Keycloak Camunda Identity Provider Plugin** on a full distribution for Apache Tomcat.

## Camunda Installation on Apache Tomcat

For information on how to install Camunda on Apache Tomcat carefully read  and follow the installation reference within the Camunda Docs: [https://docs.camunda.org/manual/latest/installation/full/tomcat/](https://docs.camunda.org/manual/latest/installation/full/tomcat/)

## Install the Keycloak Identity Provider Plugin

In order to install the Keycloak Identity Provider Plugin you have to download the library ``camunda-bpm-identity-keycloak-all-x.y.z.jar`` and copy it to ``$TOMCAT_HOME/lib``.

Please be aware that you must use the provided ``*-all-x.y.z.jar`` (fat jar, packaged with the "**-all**" extension) including transitive dependencies. The additional library is available since version ``1.3.0``.

For the records - included dependencies are:

* org.springframework:spring-web
* org.springframework:spring-beans
* org.springframework:spring-core
* org.springframework:spring-jcl
* org.apache.httpcomponents:httpclient
* org.apache.httpcomponents:httpcore
* commons-codec:commons-codec

The dependencies are shaded into the ``keycloakjar`` package namespace.

## Configure the Keycloak Identity Provider Plugin

The last step is to edit the ``bpm-platform.xml`` file inside the folder ``$TOMCAT_HOME/conf`` and configure the plugin. A sample configuration looks as follows:

	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
	<bpm-platform xmlns="http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform ">
	...
	  <process-engine name="default"> ...
	    <properties>...</properties>
	    <plugins>
	      ...
	      <plugin>
	        <class>org.camunda.bpm.extension.keycloak.plugin.KeycloakIdentityProviderPlugin</class>
	        <properties>
	          <property name="keycloakIssuerUrl">https://somehost:8443/auth/realms/camunda</property>
	          <property name="keycloakAdminUrl">https://somehost:8443/auth/admin/realms/camunda</property>
	          <property name="clientId">camunda-identity-service</property>
	          <property name="clientSecret">42xx42xx-42xx-42xx-42xx-42xx42xx42xx</property>
	          <property name="useUsernameAsCamundaUserId">true</property>
	          <property name="useGroupPathAsCamundaGroupId">true</property>
	          <property name="administratorGroupName">camunda-admin</property>
	          <property name="disableSSLCertificateValidation">true</property>
	        </properties>
	      </plugin>
	      ...
	    </plugins>
	  </process-engine>
	</bpm-platform>

For a full documentation of all configuration properties see the documentation of the [Keycloak Identity Provider Plugin](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-bpm-identity-keycloak) itself.

Commit message:

docs: added link to Maven Central for keycloak-all fat jar

examples/tomcat/README.md, after:

# Installation on Tomcat
This document describes the installation of the **Keycloak Camunda Identity Provider Plugin** on a full distribution for Apache Tomcat.

## Camunda Installation on Apache Tomcat

For information on how to install Camunda on Apache Tomcat carefully read  and follow the installation reference within the Camunda Docs: [https://docs.camunda.org/manual/latest/installation/full/tomcat/](https://docs.camunda.org/manual/latest/installation/full/tomcat/)

## Install the Keycloak Identity Provider Plugin

In order to install the Keycloak Identity Provider Plugin you have to download the library ``camunda-bpm-identity-keycloak-all-x.y.z.jar`` and copy it to ``$TOMCAT_HOME/lib``.

Please be aware that you must use the provided ``*-all-x.y.z.jar`` (fat jar, packaged with the "**-all**" extension) including transitive dependencies. The additional library is available since version ``1.3.0`` and can be found e.g. on [Maven Central](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:org.camunda.bpm.extension%20AND%20a:camunda-bpm-identity-keycloak-all).

For the records - included dependencies are:

* org.springframework:spring-web
* org.springframework:spring-beans
* org.springframework:spring-core
* org.springframework:spring-jcl
* org.apache.httpcomponents:httpclient
* org.apache.httpcomponents:httpcore
* commons-codec:commons-codec

The dependencies are shaded into the ``keycloakjar`` package namespace.

## Configure the Keycloak Identity Provider Plugin

The last step is to edit the ``bpm-platform.xml`` file inside the folder ``$TOMCAT_HOME/conf`` and configure the plugin. A sample configuration looks as follows:

	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
	<bpm-platform xmlns="http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform ">
	...
	  <process-engine name="default"> ...
	    <properties>...</properties>
	    <plugins>
	      ...
	      <plugin>
	        <class>org.camunda.bpm.extension.keycloak.plugin.KeycloakIdentityProviderPlugin</class>
	        <properties>
	          <property name="keycloakIssuerUrl">https://somehost:8443/auth/realms/camunda</property>
	          <property name="keycloakAdminUrl">https://somehost:8443/auth/admin/realms/camunda</property>
	          <property name="clientId">camunda-identity-service</property>
	          <property name="clientSecret">42xx42xx-42xx-42xx-42xx-42xx42xx42xx</property>
	          <property name="useUsernameAsCamundaUserId">true</property>
	          <property name="useGroupPathAsCamundaGroupId">true</property>
	          <property name="administratorGroupName">camunda-admin</property>
	          <property name="disableSSLCertificateValidation">true</property>
	        </properties>
	      </plugin>
	      ...
	    </plugins>
	  </process-engine>
	</bpm-platform>

For a full documentation of all configuration properties see the documentation of the [Keycloak Identity Provider Plugin](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-bpm-identity-keycloak) itself.
